Nom du fichier d’origine : Gonzalez 2018 Automated Sentence Boundary Detection in Modern StandardArabic Transcripts using Deep Neural Networks



Titre du papier  : Available online at www.sciencedirect.com



Abstract de l’auteur : AbstractThe increased volumes of Arabic sources of data available on the Web has boosted the development of Natural Language ProcessingThe increased volumes of Arabic sources of data available on the Web has boosted the development of Natural Language Processing(NLP) tools over diﬀerent tasks and applications. However, to take advantage from a vast amount of these applications, a prior(NLP) tools over diﬀerent tasks and applications. However, to take advantage from a vast amount of these applications, a priorsegmentation task call Sentence Boundary Detection (SBD) is needed. In this paper we focus on SBD over Modern Standard ArabicAbstractsegmentation task call Sentence Boundary Detection (SBD) is needed. In this paper we focus on SBD over Modern Standard Arabic(MSA) by comparing two diﬀerent approaches based on Deep Neural Networks (DNN) using out-of-domain and in-domain training(MSA) by comparing two diﬀerent approaches based on Deep Neural Networks (DNN) using out-of-domain and in-domain trainingThe increased volumes of Arabic sources of data available on the Web has boosted the development of Natural Language Processingdata with only lexical features (represented as character embedding) while conducting two scenarios based on a Convolutionaldata with only lexical features (represented as character embedding) while conducting two scenarios based on a Convolutional(NLP) tools over diﬀerent tasks and applications. However, to take advantage from a vast amount of these applications, a priorNeural Network and a Recurrent Neural Network with attention mechanism architectures. While tuning a big out-of-domain datasetNeural Network and a Recurrent Neural Network with attention mechanism architectures. While tuning a big out-of-domain datasetsegmentation task call Sentence Boundary Detection (SBD) is needed. In this paper we focus on SBD over Modern Standard Arabicwith a smaller in-domain dataset, improves the performance in general. Our evaluations were based on IWSLT 2017 TED talkswith a smaller in-domain dataset, improves the performance in general. Our evaluations were based on IWSLT 2017 TED talks(MSA) by comparing two diﬀerent approaches based on Deep Neural Networks (DNN) using out-of-domain and in-domain trainingtranscripts and showed similarities and diﬀerences depending of the SBD method. MSA carries certain complications given itstranscripts and showed similarities and diﬀerences depending of the SBD method. MSA carries certain complications given itsdata with only lexical features (represented as character embedding) while conducting two scenarios based on a Convolutionalrich and complex morphology. However, using only lexical features for Arabic SBD is an acceptable option when the source audiorich and complex morphology. However, using only lexical features for Arabic SBD is an acceptable option when the source audioNeural Network and a Recurrent Neural Network with attention mechanism architectures. While tuning a big out-of-domain datasetsignal is not available and a certain level of language independence needs to be reached.signal is not available and a certain level of language independence needs to be reached.with a smaller in-domain dataset, improves the performance in general. Our evaluations were based on IWSLT 2017 TED talks